[MUSIC]
[SOUND]
In this lecture,
we'll talk about the structure of
a sketch, the standard structure.
There are certain
functions that are defined,
that have to be defined,
inside every sketch, and so
we'll talk about those cuz every sketch
has to sort of follow this template.
So, the setup function.
Every sketch has to have a setup function.
So, a sketch is different than an actual,
it looks different than an actual C++
program, in that it doesn't have a main.
A C or
C++ program always has to have a main,
which is the main function
where execution starts.
It's a little different for this,
because what happens in a sketch.
We actually said this a few lectures ago.
Is that the main is created but
it's created behind the scenes.
So it happens during the compile.
But you don't have to write the main,
instead you have to write
the components of the main.
First, starting with this setup.
So setup is a program that's executed
once when the arduino is powered up.
So, when you plug it into power, the first
thing it does, first thing it does is run
the boot loader, but as soon as that's
done, it executes the setup function.
And the setup function,
it happens one time.
So it's used for initialization purposes.
And there are many, sort of a typical
thing in embedded systems, and
in things, devices,
that you have some operations that you
need to do to initialize your devices is.
It depends, completely depends on
the application and what you're doing.
Maybe you need to initialize a memory.
Maybe you need to set up your
communication link with Siri or
something like this.
If you were to look at our Arduino
libraries for all the shields and
things like this, they all often,
not all but pretty much all have these,
have a begin function which sets up
the interface and is executed one time.
So, Ethernet.begin, right, it sets
up the Ethernet card the first time.
You execute that only once.
Serial.begin, it sets up the serial
communication interface only once.
You execute it one time, typically.
So there are these setup functions,
these initialization functions, and
you put them into the setup function.
So, it always starts off void setup().
Setup takes no arguments,
it returns no values so it's a void, and
between the curly brackets you just list
whatever the setup functions are, or
setup operations are that
you wanna perform.
So every Arduino program has
to have a setup function.
In addition to that,
every Arduino program has to have a loop.
Now this is a property of any
sort of embedded systems.
IoT devices, any sort of devices
that you want to write code for.
They're always, the code is always
written in an infinite loop.
Now that seems strange at a glance.
If you've ever done any programming,
infinite loops are generally
considered bad, right?
If you take a programming class and
you want to compute the average between
some numbers, you write the code to do it.
At the end it finishes it,
it returns, and it's done.
It prints out its result.
That's how normal desktop and
laptop code works.
That is never how
an embedded system works.
Because and embedded system,
or an IoT device which is an embedded
system those things have to operate.
They have to be always operating
as long as they are powered on.
Imagine if I made a digital camera, and
that digital camera, I press a button and
it executes some code to take a picture.
I press the button, it executes the code,
and then it completes.
The end.
Then my camera's off and
I can't do anything else.
That's not what you want.
You want this thing to constantly
be waiting for input, right?
So it takes the picture then it waits for
the next button press.
And maybe press a different button it
does some different operation, right?
But it's always running as long
as it's powered on it's got to be
attending to buttons and
inputs and waiting for
some kind of an input to trigger
it to do something else.
So always this code for
any kind of embedded system,
including Arduino programs,
it's always written in an infinite loop.
Now if it were an arduino you would
actually write an explicit infinite loop.
You'd say while one or
something like that.
While true, and
that would be an infinite loop.
The arduino, it does that automatically
for you so when it makes it's main,
it takes whatever you write into this loop
function and just executes it infinitely.
It sticks it into an infinite loop,
so while one loop is
probably what it looks like.
It just executes that over and over.
So whatever code you write in this loop,
that's the main body of your code.
Whatever code you write in this loop,
it happens over and over forever,
as long as the Arduino is powered on.
So you have to understand
that about its execution.
That's how it's supposed to act,
and that's how it's gonna act, so
you put whatever main
control flow you want.
You write that into the loop function,
which again takes no arguments,
returns no value.
And just understand that will get
executed over and over, thank you.
[MUSIC]